# PSO-tuned_XGBoost_for_Credit_Card_Fraud_Detection
Context It is important that credit card companies are able to recognize fraudulent credit card transactions so that customers are not charged for items that they did not purchase.

Content The dataset contains transactions made by credit cards in September 2013 by European cardholders. This dataset presents transactions that occurred in two days, where we have 492 frauds out of 284,807 transactions. The dataset is highly unbalanced, the positive class (frauds) account for 0.172% of all transactions.

It contains only numerical input variables which are the result of a PCA transformation. Unfortunately, due to confidentiality issues, we cannot provide the original features and more background information about the data. Features V1, V2, … V28 are the principal components obtained with PCA, the only features which have not been transformed with PCA are 'Time' and 'Amount'. Feature 'Time' contains the seconds elapsed between each transaction and the first transaction in the dataset. The feature 'Amount' is the transaction Amount, this feature can be used for example-dependant cost-sensitive learning. Feature 'Class' is the response variable and it takes value 1 in case of fraud and 0 otherwise.

Given the class imbalance ratio, it is recommended measuring the accuracy using the Area Under the Precision-Recall Curve (AUPRC). Confusion matrix accuracy is not meaningful for unbalanced classification.
Here a meta-heuristic optimization algorithm "Particle Swarm Optimization (PSO)" has been build and hybridized with XGBoost, wherein PSO's job is to find out the best hyperparameters of XGBoost model, and then this PSO-tuned XGBoost is applied for the classification problem. This novel hybridized method has yielded very strong performance in terms of average precision score, precision, recall, f1 score. Overall, here models like Logistic Regression, Random Forest Classifier, XGBoost, and PSO-tuned-XGBoost models have been build and trained, out of these Logistic Regression has yielded the worst performance, wherein the PSO-tuned-XGBoost model has yielded superior average precision score compared to Random Forest Classifier as well as GridSearchCV tuned XGBoost.

